docusaurus/docs/Flutter/02-stream_chat_flutter/03-custom_widgets/01-customize_message_widget.mdx, before:

---
id: customize_message_widget
title: Message
---

Customizing Text Messages with the StreamMessageWidget

### Introduction

Every application provides a unique look and feel to their own messaging interface including and not
limited to fonts, colors, and shapes.

This guide details how to customize the `StreamMessageWidget` in the Stream Chat Flutter UI SDK.

### Building Custom Messages

This guide goes into detail about the ability to customize the `StreamMessageWidget`. However, if you want
to customize the default `StreamMessageWidget` in the `StreamMessageListView` provided, you can use the `.copyWith()` method
provided inside the `messageBuilder` parameter of the `StreamMessageListView` like this:

```dart
StreamMessageListView(
    messageBuilder: (context, details, messageList, defaultImpl) {
        return defaultImpl.copyWith(
            ...
        );
    },
),
```

### Theming

You can customize the `StreamMessageWidget` using the `StreamChatTheme` class, so that you can change the
message theme at the top instead of creating your own `StreamMessageWidget` at the lower implementation level.

There are several things you can change in the theme including text styles and colors of various elements.

You can also set a different theme for the user's own messages and messages received by them.

:::note
Theming allows you to change minor factors like style while using the widget directly allows you much
more customization such as replacing a certain widget with another. Some things can only be customized
through the widget and not the theme.
:::

Here is an example:

```dart
StreamChatThemeData(

  /// Sets theme for user's messages
  ownMessageTheme: StreamMessageThemeData(
    messageBackgroundColor: colorTheme.textHighEmphasis,
  ),

  /// Sets theme for received messages
  otherMessageTheme: StreamMessageThemeData(
    avatarTheme: StreamAvatarThemeData(
      borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(8),
    ),
  ),

)
```

![](../../assets/message_theming.png)

#### Change message text style

The `StreamMessageWidget` has multiple `Text` widgets that you can manipulate the styles of. The three main
are the actual message text, user name, message links, and the message timestamp.

```dart
StreamMessageThemeData(
  messageTextStyle: TextStyle(...),
  createdAtStyle: TextStyle(...),
  messageAuthorStyle: TextStyle(...),
  messageLinksStyle: TextStyle(...),
)
```

![](../../assets/message_styles.png)

#### Change avatar theme

You can change the attributes of the avatar (if displayed) using the `avatarTheme` property.

```dart
StreamMessageThemeData(
    avatarTheme: StreamAvatarThemeData(
      borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(8),
    ),
)
```

![](../../assets/message_rounded_avatar.png)

#### Changing Reaction theme

You also customize the reactions attached to every message using the theme.

```dart
StreamMessageThemeData(
  reactionsBackgroundColor: Colors.red,
  reactionsBorderColor: Colors.redAccent,
  reactionsMaskColor: Colors.pink,
),
```

![](../../assets/message_reaction_theming.png)

### Changing Message Actions

When a message is long pressed, the `StreamMessageActionsModal` is shown.

The `StreamMessageWidget` allows showing or hiding some options if you so choose.

```dart
StreamMessageWidget(
    ...
    showUsername = true,
    showTimestamp = true,
    showReactions = true,
    showDeleteMessage = true,
    showEditMessage = true,
    showReplyMessage = true,
    showThreadReplyMessage = true,
    showResendMessage = true,
    showCopyMessage = true,
    showFlagButton = true,
    showPinButton = true,
    showPinHighlight = true,
),
```

![](../../assets/message_widget_actions.png)

### Building attachments

The `attachmentBuilders` property allows you to build any kind of attachment (inbuilt or custom)
in your own way. While a separate guide is written for this, it is included here because of relevance.

```dart
class LocationAttachmentBuilder extends StreamAttachmentWidgetBuilder {
  @override
  bool canHandle(
    Message message,
    Map<String, List<Attachment>> attachments,
  ) {
    final imageAttachments = attachments['location'];
    return imageAttachments != null && imageAttachments.length == 1;
  }

  @override
  Widget build(
    BuildContext context,
    Message message,
    Map<String, List<Attachment>> attachments,
  ) {
    final attachmentWidget = Image.network(
      _buildMapAttachment(
        attachments[0].extraData['latitude'],
        attachments[0].extraData['longitude'],
      ),
    );

    return WrapAttachmentWidget(
      attachmentWidget: attachmentWidget, 
      attachmentShape: RoundedRectangleBorder(borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(8)),
    );
  }
}

StreamMessageListView(
  messageBuilder: (context, details, messages, defaultMessage) {
    return defaultMessage.copyWith(
        attachmentBuilders: const [
            LocationAttachmentBuilder(),
        ],
    );
  },
),
```

### Widget Builders

Some parameters allow you to construct your own widget in place of some elements in the `StreamMessageWidget`.

These are:
* `userAvatarBuilder`  : Allows user to substitute their own widget in place of the user avatar.
* `editMessageInputBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in place of the input in edit mode.
* `textBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in place of the text.
* `bottomRowBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in the bottom of the message when not deleted.
* `deletedBottomRowBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in the bottom of the message when deleted.

```dart
StreamMessageWidget(
    ...
    textBuilder: (context, message) {
        // Add your own text implementation here.
    },
),
```

Commit message:

docs(ui): document reaction icon customization (#1896)
* doc(ui): document reaction icon customization

* chore: fix linting

* Update docusaurus/docs/Flutter/02-stream_chat_flutter/03-custom_widgets/01-customize_message_widget.mdx

Co-authored-by: Deven Joshi <deven9852@gmail.com>

* chore: update code snippet

---------

Co-authored-by: Deven Joshi <deven9852@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/Flutter/02-stream_chat_flutter/03-custom_widgets/01-customize_message_widget.mdx, after:

---
id: customize_message_widget
title: Message
---

Customizing Text Messages with the StreamMessageWidget

### Introduction

Every application provides a unique look and feel to their own messaging interface including and not
limited to fonts, colors, and shapes.

This guide details how to customize the `StreamMessageWidget` in the Stream Chat Flutter UI SDK.

### Building Custom Messages

This guide goes into detail about the ability to customize the `StreamMessageWidget`. However, if you want
to customize the default `StreamMessageWidget` in the `StreamMessageListView` provided, you can use the `.copyWith()` method
provided inside the `messageBuilder` parameter of the `StreamMessageListView` like this:

```dart
StreamMessageListView(
    messageBuilder: (context, details, messageList, defaultImpl) {
        return defaultImpl.copyWith(
            ...
        );
    },
),
```

### Providing Custom Reaction Icons

By default the `StreamReactionIcon` widgets provided by the SDK are `love`, `like`, `sad`, `haha`, and `wow`.
However, you can provide your own custom reaction icons by providing a `reactionIcons` parameter to the `StreamChatConfigurationData`.

```dart
StreamChat(
  client: client,
  streamChatConfigData: StreamChatConfigurationData(
    reactionIcons: [
      StreamReactionIcon(
        type: 'custom',
        builder: (context, isHighlighted, iconSize) {
          return Icon(
            Icons.star,
            size: iconSize,
            color: isHighlighted ? Colors.red : Colors.black,
          );
        },
      ),
    ]
  ),
  child: //Your widget here
)
```

### Theming

You can customize the `StreamMessageWidget` using the `StreamChatTheme` class, so that you can change the
message theme at the top instead of creating your own `StreamMessageWidget` at the lower implementation level.

There are several things you can change in the theme including text styles and colors of various elements.

You can also set a different theme for the user's own messages and messages received by them.

:::note
Theming allows you to change minor factors like style while using the widget directly allows you much
more customization such as replacing a certain widget with another. Some things can only be customized
through the widget and not the theme.
:::

Here is an example:

```dart
StreamChatThemeData(

  /// Sets theme for user's messages
  ownMessageTheme: StreamMessageThemeData(
    messageBackgroundColor: colorTheme.textHighEmphasis,
  ),

  /// Sets theme for received messages
  otherMessageTheme: StreamMessageThemeData(
    avatarTheme: StreamAvatarThemeData(
      borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(8),
    ),
  ),

)
```

![](../../assets/message_theming.png)

#### Change message text style

The `StreamMessageWidget` has multiple `Text` widgets that you can manipulate the styles of. The three main
are the actual message text, user name, message links, and the message timestamp.

```dart
StreamMessageThemeData(
  messageTextStyle: TextStyle(...),
  createdAtStyle: TextStyle(...),
  messageAuthorStyle: TextStyle(...),
  messageLinksStyle: TextStyle(...),
)
```

![](../../assets/message_styles.png)

#### Change avatar theme

You can change the attributes of the avatar (if displayed) using the `avatarTheme` property.

```dart
StreamMessageThemeData(
    avatarTheme: StreamAvatarThemeData(
      borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(8),
    ),
)
```

![](../../assets/message_rounded_avatar.png)

#### Changing Reaction theme

You also customize the reactions attached to every message using the theme.

```dart
StreamMessageThemeData(
  reactionsBackgroundColor: Colors.red,
  reactionsBorderColor: Colors.redAccent,
  reactionsMaskColor: Colors.pink,
),
```

![](../../assets/message_reaction_theming.png)

### Changing Message Actions

When a message is long pressed, the `StreamMessageActionsModal` is shown.

The `StreamMessageWidget` allows showing or hiding some options if you so choose.

```dart
StreamMessageWidget(
    ...
    showUsername = true,
    showTimestamp = true,
    showReactions = true,
    showDeleteMessage = true,
    showEditMessage = true,
    showReplyMessage = true,
    showThreadReplyMessage = true,
    showResendMessage = true,
    showCopyMessage = true,
    showFlagButton = true,
    showPinButton = true,
    showPinHighlight = true,
),
```

![](../../assets/message_widget_actions.png)

### Building attachments

The `attachmentBuilders` property allows you to build any kind of attachment (inbuilt or custom)
in your own way. While a separate guide is written for this, it is included here because of relevance.

```dart
class LocationAttachmentBuilder extends StreamAttachmentWidgetBuilder {
  @override
  bool canHandle(
    Message message,
    Map<String, List<Attachment>> attachments,
  ) {
    final imageAttachments = attachments['location'];
    return imageAttachments != null && imageAttachments.length == 1;
  }

  @override
  Widget build(
    BuildContext context,
    Message message,
    Map<String, List<Attachment>> attachments,
  ) {
    final attachmentWidget = Image.network(
      _buildMapAttachment(
        attachments[0].extraData['latitude'],
        attachments[0].extraData['longitude'],
      ),
    );

    return WrapAttachmentWidget(
      attachmentWidget: attachmentWidget, 
      attachmentShape: RoundedRectangleBorder(borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(8)),
    );
  }
}

StreamMessageListView(
  messageBuilder: (context, details, messages, defaultMessage) {
    return defaultMessage.copyWith(
        attachmentBuilders: const [
            LocationAttachmentBuilder(),
        ],
    );
  },
),
```

### Widget Builders

Some parameters allow you to construct your own widget in place of some elements in the `StreamMessageWidget`.

These are:
* `userAvatarBuilder`  : Allows user to substitute their own widget in place of the user avatar.
* `editMessageInputBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in place of the input in edit mode.
* `textBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in place of the text.
* `bottomRowBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in the bottom of the message when not deleted.
* `deletedBottomRowBuilder` : Allows user to substitute their own widget in the bottom of the message when deleted.

```dart
StreamMessageWidget(
    ...
    textBuilder: (context, message) {
        // Add your own text implementation here.
    },
),
```
