docusaurus/docs/Flutter/02-stream_chat_flutter/03-custom_widgets/03-customize_message_actions.mdx, before:

---
id: customize_message_actions
title: Message Actions 
---

Customizing Message Actions

### Introduction

Message actions pop up in message overlay, when you long-press a message.

![](../../assets/message_actions.jpg)

We have provided granular control over these actions.

By default we render the following message actions:

* edit message

* delete message

* reply

* thread reply

* copy message

* flag message

* pin message

:::note
Edit and delete message are only available on messages sent by the user.
Additionally, pinning a message requires you to add the roles which are allowed to pin messages.
:::

### Partially remove some message actions

For example, if you only want to keep "copy message" and "delete message":
here is how to do it using the `messageBuilder` with our `StreamMessageWidget`.

```dart
StreamMessageListView(
  messageBuilder: (context, details, messages, defaultMessage) {
    return defaultMessage.copyWith(
        showFlagButton: false,
        showEditMessage: false,
        showCopyMessage: true,
        showDeleteMessage: details.isMyMessage,
        showReplyMessage: false,
        showThreadReplyMessage: false,
    );
  },
)
```

### Add a new custom message action

The SDK also allows you to add new actions into the dialog.

For example, let's suppose you want to introduce a new message action - "Demo Action":

We use the `customActions` parameter of the `StreamMessageWidget` to add extra actions.

```dart
StreamMessageListView(
  messageBuilder: (context, details, messages, defaultMessage) {
    return defaultMessage.copyWith(
      customActions: [
        StreamMessageAction(
          leading: const Icon(Icons.add),
          title: const Text('Demo Action'),
          onTap: (message) {
            /// Complete action here
          },
        ),
      ],
    );
  },
)
```

Commit message:

feat(ui): mark unread feature - UI (#1881)
* mark message as unread feature

* jump to last read message

* changelog

* error handling

* tweak

* mark unread feature - ui

* doc

* localization tests

* tweaks

* tweaks

* localizations tests

* tweak

* Add test coverage

---------

Co-authored-by: Efthymis Sarmpanis <e.sarbanis@gmail.com>

docusaurus/docs/Flutter/02-stream_chat_flutter/03-custom_widgets/03-customize_message_actions.mdx, after:

---
id: customize_message_actions
title: Message Actions 
---

Customizing Message Actions

### Introduction

Message actions pop up in message overlay, when you long-press a message.

![](../../assets/message_actions.jpg)

We have provided granular control over these actions.

By default we render the following message actions:

* edit message

* delete message

* reply

* thread reply

* copy message

* flag message

* pin message

* mark unread

:::note
Edit and delete message are only available on messages sent by the user.
Additionally, pinning a message requires you to add the roles which are allowed to pin messages.
:::

:::note
Mark unread message is only available on messages sent by other users and only when read events are enabled for the channel.
Additionally, it's not possible to mark messages inside threads as unread.
:::

### Partially remove some message actions

For example, if you only want to keep "copy message" and "delete message":
here is how to do it using the `messageBuilder` with our `StreamMessageWidget`.

```dart
StreamMessageListView(
  messageBuilder: (context, details, messages, defaultMessage) {
    return defaultMessage.copyWith(
        showFlagButton: false,
        showEditMessage: false,
        showCopyMessage: true,
        showDeleteMessage: details.isMyMessage,
        showReplyMessage: false,
        showThreadReplyMessage: false,
        showMarkUnreadMessage: false,
    );
  },
)
```

### Add a new custom message action

The SDK also allows you to add new actions into the dialog.

For example, let's suppose you want to introduce a new message action - "Demo Action":

We use the `customActions` parameter of the `StreamMessageWidget` to add extra actions.

```dart
StreamMessageListView(
  messageBuilder: (context, details, messages, defaultMessage) {
    return defaultMessage.copyWith(
      customActions: [
        StreamMessageAction(
          leading: const Icon(Icons.add),
          title: const Text('Demo Action'),
          onTap: (message) {
            /// Complete action here
          },
        ),
      ],
    );
  },
)
```
